COMP30024
Part A

Nick Conte
Evan Lewis


Comments

For calculating the number of available moves, what is the time complexity and space
complexity of your program? You should not count the time taken to read the board
configuration from input.

n = number of pieces

Logic of program:
    Loop through all pieces
        loop through four directions and 2 move types (1 tile move and 2 tile jump move) = 8 total options
8 * n comparisons

O(n) time (O(1) if you consider that n < 64)

Our findMoves function saves all the possible moves (to use in findpath())

n = number of moves
max number of moves = 4

8 * n moves

O(n) space (O(1) if you consider that n < 64)



• For calculating the sequence of moves to eliminate all enemy pieces, how have you
modelled the problem as a search problem? What search algorithm does your
program use? If applicable, what is the branching factor of your search tree? What is
the maximum search depth? Does your algorithm always return the shortest possible
sequence of moves that will eliminate all enemy pieces?

Our program
- chooses a target enemy piece (prioritises enemy pieces already touching one of ours)
- uses the a * algorithm to find the distance from each of our pieces to a position next to the target piece
- Moves the piece with the shortest path one step along its path
- Loops until all enemy pieces are gone

The nodes are the tiles of the board
The edges are all possible and safe (doesn't go between two enemy pieces/corner) moves
The heuristic estimate of a path is the distance ignoring any obstacles i.e. the row difference plus the column difference

A * inherits from djiskstra's algorithm the aspect of never backtracking as it never makes the path shorter
(assuming no negative cost edges which there aren't)
So the maximum search depth can't be more than the number of nodes : 64 and is realistically much less.

There can only be a max of 4 edges, one for each direction.

As our program models only the moves of individual pieces as a search problem and not every piece's possible moves it
could fail at finding a solution when one exists.
However it is much more likely to reach an answer in a reasonable amount of time as the search depth is limited and
fails only in niche cases.